=============================================
iPlant Collaborative multiworkshop, Sep 21-23
=============================================

iPlant:

* Nirav Merchant (University of Arizona),
* Matthew Vaughn and John Fonner (Texas Advanced Computing Center)
* Kapeel Chougule and Jason Williams (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory).

Guest Instructor: Harold Pimentel (UC Berkeley)

Data Carpentry Instructor: Tracy Teal (Data Carpentry PI)

Visiting instructor: Adelaide Rhodes (Oregon State CGRB)

Host: C. Titus Brown and Jessica Mizzi; contact `Jessica Mizzi <mailto:jessica.mizzi@gmail.com>`__ with any questions.

----

When: September 21-23, 2015.

Times: 9am-5pm, all three days.

Where: Valley Hall (see workshop descriptions, below, for specific rooms)

Cost: there is no fee.

These workshops are open to everyone, including graduate students,
postdocs, staff, faculty, and community members.  We have extra space
for UC Davis VetMed affiliates; contact the host if you are
an SVM affiliate. (These spaces will be released to the wait list on Monday,
September 14th.)

See workshop descriptions below for registration links.

.. contents::

Description
-----------

`The iPlant Collaborative <http://www.iplantcollaborative.org/>`__
enables scientists in all domains of life sciences to connect to
public datasets, manage and store their own data and experiments,
access high-performance computing, and share results with colleagues.

We will be running four workshops on iPlant:

* Introduction to iPlant, on Monday, Sep 21 - `click here to register <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/introduction-to-iplant-registration-18396355996>`__;
* a `Genomics Data Carpentry <http://datacarpentry.github.io/lessons/>`__ on Tuesday and Wednesday, Sep 22-23 - `click here to register <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/doing-genomics-on-iplant-a-data-carpentry-workshop-registration-18396466326>`__;
* an "iPlant Intermediate" workshop, on Tues, Sep 22 - `click here to register <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/iplant-for-advanced-users-registration-18396590698>`__;
* an "iPlant Advanced" hackathon, on Wed, Sep 23

.. - `click here to register <@@>`__;

(Each workshop is all day, every day, so please don't sign up for overlapping
workshops!)

Topics overview - Introduction to iPlant
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Monday, Sep 21 - `click here to register <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/introduction-to-iplant-registration-18396355996>`__

Location: 1010 Valley

This one-day workshop is an overview of platforms, tools, and services
for large-scale data analysis developed by the iPlant Collaborative
(funded by the National Science Foundation). Resources are available
for researchers working across all domains of life (microbe, animal,
and plant). Hands-on demos and guided exercises give an overview of
how to move, manage, and analyze data through local, web, and cloud
interfaces. All topics will involve hand-on demos with example data.

Topics:

* Data upload and sharing
* Analyzing data in the Discovery Environment
* Introductory RNA-Seq Analysis with the Tuxedo workflow
* Intro to Atmosphere Cloud computing

Who Should Attend?
Any investigator (PIs, post-docs, grad students, industry users) who
is or will be working with large datasets and computation-intensive
research questions in the life-sciences (plants and animals!)

Topics overview - Data Carpentry
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tuesday and Wednesday, Sep 22-23 - `click here to register <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/doing-genomics-on-iplant-a-data-carpentry-workshop-registration-18396466326>`__

Location: 1043 Valley (both days)

`Data Carpentry <http://datacarpentry.org>`__ workshops are for any
researcher who has data they want to analyze; no prior computational
experience is required. This hands-on workshop teaches basic concepts,
skills and tools for working more effectively with data. We will be
teaching all the basics, including command line skills that will
enable you to get started with almost any high-throughput (NGS)
sequence data.

Topics:

* Organizing computational biology projects
* Introducing and exploring common genomics/NGS file formats
* Introduction to the Linux command line
* Introduction to cloud computing
* Data wrangling and processing at the command line
* Data analysis and visualization in R

Who Should Attend?  This workshop assumes you have little to no
command line experience. We anticipate the workshop will be of
interest to PIs, post-docs, grad students, etc. who are or will be
working with high-throughput/NGS sequence data. This workshop will NOT
be focusing on specific tools/software, but on concepts and best
practices. Please register ONLY if you plan to attend both days of the
workshop.

Topics overview - Intermediate iPlant
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tuesday, Sep 22 - `click here to register <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/iplant-for-advanced-users-registration-18396590698>`__

Location: 1041 Valley

This workshop builds on the introductory materials covered in the
previous day's Introductory workshop. We will be covering more
detailed aspects of RNA-Seq analysis including benchmarking and use of
some of the most recently published RNA-Seq applications. We will also
cover more in-depth uses of iPlant resources for data management

Topics:

* Working effectively with iRODS and iCommands
* Using HPC apps (MAKER-P from upload to visualization with JBrowse) on DE/Atmosphere
* RNA-Seq w/Kallisto (tentative)
* RNA-Seq visualization with cummeRbund

Who Should Attend?  We anticipate this workshop will be of interest to
people who currently are working with RNA-Seq data (or will be
shortly). General knowledge of RNA-Seq and familiarity with iPlant
Tools (especially Atmosphere Cloud Computing) is recommended.

Topics overview - Advanced iPlant
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Wednesday, Sep 23 - `click here to register <http://www.iplantcollaborative.org/content/advanced-iplant-workshophackathon-uc-davis-sep-23rd-2015>`__

Location: 2020 Valley

Topics:

* Intro to Agave and its CLI
* Auth/Application management
* Data management 
* Job and workflow management
* Combining Docker with Agave
* Integrating HPC and Cloud resources

Who Should Attend?  This workshop is targeted at users (and those who
manage data and compute for others) who wish to deploy scripts and
software within one or more iPlant platforms. The agenda is guide for
hackathon-style approach to using iPlant, and will happily be adapted
to the interests and use cases of the attendees.

Computer and software requirements
----------------------------------

These are hands on workshops, so please bring a network-enabled laptop and
a power cord. 

