Microbial genomics and transcriptomics hands-on, Sep 24-25
==========================================================

Who: Ben Johnson (Michigan State University); C. Titus Brown (UC Davis).

Host: `C. Titus Brown <mailto:ctbrown@ucdavis.edu>`__

When: Sep 24 and 25, 2015

Times: 9am-3pm on both days

Where: Bennett Conference Room, CCAH Facility, UC Davis Campus

Cost: there is no fee.

This workshop is open to everyone, including graduate students,
postdocs, staff, faculty, and community members.  We have extra space
for UC Davis VetMed affiliates; contact the host if you are an SVM
affiliate.

`> Register here < <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/microbial-genomics-registration-18399810328>`__
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. `> Materials link < <http://2015-may-nonmodel.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`__
.. --------------------------------------------------------------------------


Description
-----------

This two-day hands-on workshop will introduce biologists to microbial
genomics and transcriptomics.  The primary focus will be on genome assembly
and annotation, and subsequent transcriptome analysis, of bacteria.

We will be analyzing a stock data set, and we will be using the Amazon
cloud.

Topics overview
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Logging into the Amazon Cloud
* Short read quality and trimming
* Genome assembly (with SPAdes or MEGAHIT)
* Genome annotation (with Prokka)
* RNAseq analysis
* Differential expression analysis

Computer requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Attendees will need to bring a computer with a Web browser, an
Internet connection, and an ssh client; Windows users should install
`MobaXterm <http://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/>`__ before the workshop.
