Docker hands-on, Nov 9-10, 2015 (intermediate)
==============================================

Host: `C. Titus Brown <mailto:ctbrown@ucdavis.edu>`__

Please contact `Jessica Mizzi <mailto:jessica.mizzi@gmail.com>`__ with
any questions.

When: Nov 9-10, 2015

Times: 9:15am-4:30pm, both days; people are welcome to drop in when they can.

Where: TBD, but on UC Davis campus somewhere.

Cost: there is no fee.

This workshop is open to everyone, including graduate students,
postdocs, staff, faculty, and community members.

Please `**REGISTER HERE** <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/docker-hands-on-tickets-19064340957>`__ if you're planning on attending any part
of this workshop - there are space limits on the room, and this will
help us plan coffee as well.

Materials and links from the workshop will be posted to `the
workshop-specific Hackpad
<https://hackpad.com/Notes-from-the-Docker-hands-on-Nov-9-10-2015-olJpjzy4jCj>`__.

Schedule
~~~~~~~~

* Mon, 9:15am-noon: Docker overview and introduction. `Past workshop materials <http://angus.readthedocs.org/en/2015/week3/CTB_docker.html>`__

* The rest of the workshop is unstructured, allowing people to drop in when they have time.  We will be covering the planned activities list above depending on the interests of people present.  Please come by if you are interested!

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

This two-day workshop is for exploring the use of `Docker
<http://www.docker.com>`__ containers for running, wrapping,
distributing, and publishing scientific workflows.  Docker containers
provide a lightweight computational framework for all of these things,
and we intend that this workshop will provide a friendly and welcoming
environment for trying it out.

People new to docker are welcome to attend!  We do suggest that attendees
have some familiarity with the UNIX command line.

Planned activities:

* Monday morning will start with an introduction to Docker, using the
  Amazon cloud to provide a consistent computing environment.  You can
  find `the lesson we'll use, here
  <https://github.com/ngs-docs/2015-nov-docker/blob/master/docker-intro.rst>`__.
  People who can't make Monday morning can run through the tutorial on
  their own, later, and we're happy to help!

* We'll provide "challenge exercises" for people who want to play with Docker
  themselves.

* We're particularly interested in trying out `mybinder.org
  <http://mybinder.org>`__, which takes a git repo and turns it into a
  running data analysis environment.

* We'd like to explore data volumes and the use of Docker for data-intensive
  research.

* We'd also like to gain some experience with people installing Docker
  locally on their Windows and Mac laptops.

* `Bioboxes <http://bioboxes.org/>`__ looks interesting and we'd love
  to play with it!

Some reading:

* `An introduction to Docker for reproducible research <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=2723872.2723882>`__, Carl Boettiger, 2015.

* `Bioboxes <http://www.gigasciencejournal.com/content/4/1/47>`__, Belmann et al., 2015.

* `The impact of Docker containers on the performance of genomic pipelines <https://peerj.com/preprints/1171/>`__, Di Tommaso et al., 2015.

* `Integrating Containers into Workflows: A Case Study Using Makeflow, Work Queue, and Docker <http://ccl.cse.nd.edu/research/papers/wq-docker-vtdc15.pdf>`__, Zheng and Thain, 2015.

* `Reproducibility in Science - Nextflow meets Docker <http://www.nextflow.io/blog/2014/nextflow-meets-docker.html>`__, Maria Chatzou, 2014.

Computer requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Attendees will need to bring a computer with a Web browser, an
Internet connection, and an ssh client; Windows users should install
`MobaXterm <http://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/>`__ before the workshop.
