d3.js for Interactive Data Visualization
========================================

Who: `Emily Dolson <http://cse.msu.edu/~dolsonem/>`__, lead instructor.

When: December 4, 2015

Times: 12:15-3:15pm EST / 9:15am-12:15pm PST

Where: Online / Michigan State U. / UC Davis / Virigina Tech / U. of Florida.  

The UC Davis location will be in the `Bennett Room <http://dib-training.readthedocs.org/en/pub/Bennett-room.html>`__
in the CCAH building.

Cost: There is no fee.

Contact: Please contact `Jessica Mizzi <mailto:jessica.mizzi@gmail.com>`__ with any questions.

This workshop is open to everyone via YouTube.  We will have several in-person
locations at Michigan State, UC Davis, and elsewhere; see below for details.

`> Register here < <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/d3js-for-interactive-data-visualization-tickets-19606308998>`__
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Workshop description:

Want to make pretty, dynamic, and interactive data visualizations like
http://charts.animateddata.co.uk/ukwind/ and
http://mbostock.github.io/d3/talk/20111116/iris-splom.html? D3 (which
stands for Data Driven Documents) is a Javascript library that enables
you to display data in a flexible way. Since it's a Javascript
library, these visualizations can easily be shared either offline or
via the internet. The option to add interactive elements to your
visualization lends itself to making your data easy for others to
explore. We'll be running a 3-hour workshop covering the basics of 
using d3.js to visualize data. No
prior web programming experience required (we'll teach you the
necessary Javascript and html), but this workshop is aimed at people
who already feel comfortable programming in at least one language.

Locations
---------

The workshop will be livestreamed via Google Hangouts to YouTube.  In
addition, we will be offering four in-person classrooms at Michigan State
University (East Lansing, MI); UC Davis (Davis, CA); and two additional
locations.

Michigan State University: location/registration info.

UC Davis: location/registration info.
