scipy.optimize
==============

Who: Ariel Rokem, lead instructor. 

When: February 19, 2016

Times: 9:15am-12:15pm PST

Where: UC Davis Location: Shields Library, UC Davis campus

Contact `Jessica Mizzi <mailto:jessica.mizzi@gmail.com>`__ with any questions.

`> UC Davis attendees Registration < <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/scipyoptimize-half-day-workshop-tickets-20041023240>`__
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note: You only need to register if you plan to attend a workshop in a classroom. If you only plan to watch the online
stream, then you don't need to the register. The YouTube link for the stream will be posted on this page on the morning 
just before the workshop starts.

`Workshop materials <http://arokem.github.io/scipy-optimize>`__
---------------------------------------------------------------

Workshop materials are available online here: http://arokem.github.io/scipy-optimize.

The presentation of these materials is available via YouTube at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0eFokR-ikaA (live-streamed and then recorded).

Description
-----------

The `scipy.optimize` library is part of a Python based collection of open source software for scientific,
mathematic, and engineering work called `Scipy <http://scipy.org/>`__.

In this half-day workshop, we will focus on using this library to find models that are good approximations of data. We will learn 
how fit different models to experimental data and how to compare different models to each other.


Installation instructions
-------------------------

Please install **Python version 3 or higher**. `Python <http://python.org>`__ 
is a popular language for scientific computing, and great for general-purpose
programming as well.  Installing all of its scientific packages individually can be
a bit difficult, so we recommend `Anaconda <https://www.continuum.io/anaconda>`__, 
an all-in-one installer. See below for instructions for Windows, Mac or Linux.

**Data**: please download the data folder from `the workshop website <http://arokem.github.io/scipy-optimize/scipy-optimize-data.zip>`__.


**Windows**

1. Open `http://continuum.io/downloads <http://continuum.io/downloads>`__ with your web browser.
2. Download the Python 3 installer for Windows.
3. Install Python 3 using all of the defaults for installation *except* make sure to check **Make Anaconda the default Python**.

**Mac OS X**

1. Open `http://continuum.io/downloads <http://continuum.io/downloads>`__ with your web browser.
2. Download the Python 3 installer for OS X.
3. Install Python 3 using all of the defaults for installation.

**Linux**

1. Open `http://continuum.io/downloads <http://continuum.io/downloads>`__ with your web browser.
2. Download the Python 3 installer for Linux.
3. Install Python 3 using all of the defaults for installation. (Installation requires using the shell). 
4. Open a terminal window.
5. Type bash Anaconda- and then press tab. The name of the file you just downloaded should appear.
6. Press enter. You will follow the text-only prompts.  When there is a colon at the bottom of the screen press the down arrow to move down through the text. Type "yes" and press enter to approve the license. Press enter to approve the default location for the files. Type "yes" and press enter to prepend Anaconda to your PATH (this makes the Anaconda distribution the default Python).


