R, RStudio, and RMarkdown for exploring your data
=================================================

Who: Titus Brown, lead instructor; Chris Hamm and Daniel Standage.

When: December 15th, 2016

Times: 9:30am-12:15pm PST

Where: 2020 Valley Hall, UC Davis campus.

Contact: Please contact `Titus Brown <mailto:ctbrown@ucdavis.edu>`__ with any questions.

This workshop will be recorded and the recording will be available for
viewing through this Web page.

`> Register Here < <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/r-rstudio-and-rmarkdown-for-exploring-your-data-registration-30166702419>`__
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`> Video recording < <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S57_JAOCJj0>`__
---------------------------------------------------------------------

`> Materials Link Here < <http://www.datacarpentry.org/R-ecology-lesson/>`__
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Description
-----------

This workshop will introduce the basics of R, RStudio, and RMarkdown
for working with data and doing reproducible data analyses.  No previous
experience with R or Rstudio or RMarkdown is needed.

The workshop will be based on the `Data Carpentry "gapminder" R Lesson
<http://data-lessons.github.io/gapminder-R/>`__.

Computer and workshop requirements
----------------------------------

Attendees will need to bring a computer with an Internet connection.

Please follow the installation instructions `at the bottom of this page <http://www.datacarpentry.org/R-ecology-lesson/>`__.

In addition, we will need the 'tidyverse' installs; we can do this in class,
but it's better if you can try it out in advance!  You can either run
RSTudio and then go to 'Tools' and 'Install packages', and then enter
'tidyverse'; OR, you can start R and type/execute::

    install.packages('tidyverse')

If you run into any problems, please do hesitate to `e-mail the lead
instructor <ctbrown@ucdavis.edu>`__.  You can also ask us questions on
the `UC Davis Slack site <http://ucdavis.slack.com>`__ on the
``#maddibs`` channel.
