Vega-Lite Tutorial for Data Visualizations
==========================================

Who: Jeff Heer, Dominik Moritz, Ham Wongsuphasawat

When: May 18, 2016

Times: 9:15am-12:15pm PST

UC Davis Location: `DSI Space, Shields Library, UC Davis Campus  <http://dib-training.readthedocs.org/en/pub/DSI-space-directions.html>`__ 


Contact: Please contact `Jessica Mizzi <mailto:jessica.mizzi@gmail.com>`__ with any questions


`> UC Davis Register Here < <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/vega-for-data-visualization-tickets-25275546841>`__
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`> Material Slides Here < <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10L-yA_Tq2-3r70F8EZHE0y5GCEE4214oJHucUclOhX8/edit#slide=id.g1405c484bf_4_40>`__
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`> Watch Here < <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lFsjrX9GbhY&feature=youtu.be>`__
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`> Etherpad < <https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/2016-05-18-vegalite>`__
------------------------------------------------------------------------


Description
-----------

Visualizations can be a powerful to to efficiently explore data and to communicate your research results. 
However, creating effective visualizations and picking the right tools can be tricky. In our hands on workshop we 
will show you how you can use `Vega-Lite <https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/>`__  to quickly create visualizations. We have created Vega-Lite as an easy to use 
visualization library for data exploration with smart defaults but also ways to customize charts for presentation. Our 
goal for this workshop is to create a visualization with you and then publish it on the internet. 

In this hands on workshop you will learn how to:

* Create basic visualizations with Vega-Lite
* How to effectively encode your data
* Transform the data in Vega-Lite
* Customize visual appearance of the charts
* Embed visualizations in a web page
* Load your own data

This workshop will be taught remotely and broadcast to our classroom
via Google Hangouts on Air. We will have helpers in our local room to
facilitate the lesson. The lesson will also be streamed to YouTube and
saved there for viewing at a later time. **You only need to register to
this event if you plan on coming to a classroom.**



What to Bring
-------------

* A computer connected to the internet, that's it!
* An interesting data set if you have one

