Introductory Git
================

Who: Titus Brown, lead instructor.

When: December 8th, 2016

Times: 9:15am-12:15pm PST

Where: 1043 Valley Hall, UC Davis campus.

Contact: Please contact `Titus Brown <mailto:ctbrown@ucdavis.edu>`__ with any questions.

This workshop will be recorded and the recording will be available for
viewing through this Web page.

`> Register Here < <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/introductory-version-control-with-git-registration-29891921542>`__
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`> Materials Link Here < <https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/>`__
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Description
-----------


This workshop will introduce the basics of git, a widely used system
for managing changes to files.  Git and related systems are key for
replicability when doing any kind of computational analysis.

This will be a gentle introduction to git that follows the Software
Carpentry lesson.

Some experience with the command line is strongly suggested, but you
don't need to be an expert by any means; we will have friendly TAs,
too!

We will also talk about GitHub, a site that enables collaboration
around files in git.
 

Computer and workshop requirements
----------------------------------

Attendees will need to bring a computer with an Internet connection.

Please install git before the workshop by following the
instructions below.

Installation instructions
-------------------------

Windows:

1. Download the Git for Windows installer `here <https://git-for-windows.github.io/>`__.
2. Follow install instructions.

   * Click "next"
   * Click "next"
   * Click "next"
   * Click "next"
   * Click "next"
   * Select **"Use Git from the Windows Command Prompt"** and click on "next".  If you forget to do this, re-run the installer and select the correct option.
   * Click "next", keep **"Checkout Windows-style, commit Unix-style line endings"** selected.
   * Select **"Use Windows' default console window"** and click on "next"
   * Click on "next"
   * Click on "finish"

Macintosh / OS X:

For versions **10.9 and higher**:

Download and run the most recent "mavericks" installer from `this list 
<http://sourceforge.net/projects/git-osx-installer/files/>`__.

For versions **10.5-10.8**:

Download and run the most recent "snow-leopards" installer from
`this list <http://sourceforge.net/projects/git-osx-installer/files/>`__.
