Pydoit for Workflow Automation
==============================

Who: Camille Scott, lead instructor.

When: January 20, 2016

Times: 9:15am-12:15pm PST

Where: TBD (Valley Hall, UC Davis Campus)  

Contact: Please contact `Jessica Mizzi <mailto:jessica.mizzi@gmail.com>`__ with any questions.


`> Watch Here < <http://youtu.be/EfD9bWmL-1M>`__
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. `> Materials Link Here < <http://emilydolson.github.io/D3-visualising-data/>`__
.. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Description
-----------

Pydoit is a task management and automation tool, similar to ‘make’ (comparison: http://swcarpentry.github.io/bc/intermediate/doit/make-vs-doit.html). Tasks are defined individually and executed in order according to dependencies, via a directed acyclic graph. The basic building blocks of a pydoit workflow are tasks, which encode the work we would like to get done. Here is an extremely simple task::

 def task_hello_world():
    return {'actions': ['echo "hello world!" > hello.txt’ ],
                'targets': ['hello.txt’]}


The task is a python function prefixed with task, which returns a dictionary containing some predefined entries. The actions entry is a list of the actual commands we'd like to run, in this case, a single shell command. The targets entry is a list of the files output by this task.  Of course, hello world doesn't really do anything for us. Throughout this lesson, we're going to build a pipeline which downloads some data, plots it with matplotlib, generates a markup file with the chart, and outputs a final compiled document -- in other words, a barebones version of a publication pipeline.

Computer and workshop requirements
----------------------------------

Attendees will need to bring a computer with an Internet connection.

Please install Python 3.x before the workshop by following the
instructions below.

Installation instructions
-------------------------

**Python**

`Python <https://www.python.org/>`__ is a very powerful programming
language.  We recommend using `Anaconda
<https://www.continuum.io/why-anaconda>`__ as an all-in-one installer.

Windows:

1. Go to `https://www.continuum.io/downloads <https://www.continuum.io/downloads>`__.
2. Download Python 3.x (3.4 is fine) 64-bit graphical installer for Windows, *not* Python 2.7.
3. Install Python 3.x using all defaults *except* make sure to check **Make Anaconda the default Python**.

OS X:

1. Go to `https://www.continuum.io/downloads <https://www.continuum.io/downloads>`__.
2. Download Python 3.x (3.4 is fine) 64-bit graphical installer for OS X, *not* Python 2.7.
3. Install Python 3.x using all defaults.

Once installation is complete, please go to `this page
<http://bids.github.io/2016-01-14-berkeley/setup/index.html>`__ to
test that Python has installed correctly.  If you do not have bash
installed, please refer to the installation instructions at the bottom
of `this page
<http://dib-training.readthedocs.org/en/pub/2015-12-03-shell-halfday.html>`__.

**Dependencies**

Windows and OS X:

If you are using Anaconda, open Python and run::

   install doit seaborn jinja2

If you are not using Anconda, open Python and run the previous command
as well as:: 

   pip install matplotlib pandas

To install necessary dependencies.

**Pandoc**

Windows and OS X:

Scroll to the bottom of the latest `pandoc release page 
<https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/releases/tag/1.16.0.1>`__. Download
and run the correct package installer for your system (Windows users use
the package ending in -windows.msi, Mac users use the package ending in
-osx.pkg).
