Amazon Web Services
===================

Who: Titus Brown, lead instructor. 

When: November 17, 2016

Times: 9:15am-12:15pm PST

Where: 1043 Valley Hall, UC Davis campus.

Contact `Titus Brown <mailto:ctbrown@ucdavis.edu>`__ with any questions.

This workshop will be recorded and the recording will be available for
viewing through this Web page.

`> Materials < <https://2016-feb-aws.readthedocs.org/>`__
---------------------------------------------------------

`> Register here < <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/amazon-web-services-for-cloud-computing-registration-28808156973>`__
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Description
-----------

Amazon Web Services is one of a number of cloud computing services that offers “rental compute” - a way to buy compute time as you need it.  This is an increasingly common way for scientists to scale up their work, and it also has a number of benefits for reproducibility and teaching.

This tutorial will introduce people to using Amazon Web Services to run programs on a Linux computer rented through their Web interface (“EC2”). I’ll demonstrate the basic process, discuss different options and pricing schemes, and cover the use of AWS disk storage. I’ll also demonstrate S3 (Simple Storage Service) which is a way to store and distribute large files.

Attendees will need to pay their own AWS costs - it will be less than $5 total for the workshop. You will need a reasonably modern computer and there will be some software to pre-install (but not much).

Installation Instructions
-------------------------

For this workshop, you need an AWS account and a terminal.

**AWS account**

Please make sure to register for an `Amazon Web Services account
<https://aws.amazon.com/>`__. Attendees will need to provide a credit
card and cover their own computing costs, which should be less than $5
for the entire workshop. You should see an "Amazon Web Services" menu
page, and see an "EC2" button on the top left corner after signing in.

Windows:

Please download `MobaXTerm Home
<http://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/download-home-edition.html>`__, Portable
Edition `(direct link)
<http://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/MobaXterm_v9.4.zip>`__.

Please also make sure you have the Firefox or Chrome Web browsers installed!

Mac OS X:

The default shell in Mac OS X is bash, so you can access the Terminal
from /Applications/Utilities (go to your Applications folder, then go
to the Utilities window.  You should see "Terminal" there)
