Intermediate Bioinformatics Training 
====================================

.. @add mailing list info

Who: `Titus Brown <mailto:ctbrown@ucdavis.edu>`__ 
and many others (see below).

When: February 8 through 12, 2016

Where: `Bodega Marine Lab <http://bml.ucdavis.edu/>`__ at Bodega Bay

Please contact `Jessica Mizzi <mailto:jessica.mizzi@gmail.com>`__ with any questions.

Description
-----------

We will be running a week-long set of Carpentry-style tutorials on
intermediate to advanced genomics techniques from Feb 8-12, 2016, at
the Bodega Marine Lab.  We've done this `before
<http://angus.readthedocs.org/en/2015/week3.html>`__ and it went
pretty `well <http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/2015-small-batch.html>`__.

Twitter hashtag: `#bodega16 <https://twitter.com/hashtag/bodega16?src=hash>`__

Daily schedule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

===========  ==========================================
Time period  Activity
===========  ==========================================
8am-8:45am   Breakfast, at housing cafeteria
9:15am       First tutorial
noon-3pm     Break for lunch, excursions, relaxation
3pm-6pm      Second tutorial
6pm-6:45pm   Dinner, at housing cafeteria
7pm+         Unplanned time (down by housing)
===========  ==========================================

Schedule of presentations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Monday:*

(starting at 1:30pm in the main lab)

- Titus, introductions; reminding everyone of `Amazon Web Services stuff <https://angus.readthedocs.org/en/2015/amazon/>`__

- 3pm: Quick tour of things.

- `Amanda Charbonneau <https://github.com/ACharbonneau/LaTeX2016.git>`__, Michigan State University

  + Collaborative authoring with overleaf

*Tuesday:*

- `Will Trimble <http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Will_Trimble>`__, Argonne National Lab

  + `Understanding sequencing data set quality with k-mers <https://github.com/wltrimbl/cloud-kmers>`__

- `Jon Badalamenti <http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Jonathan_Badalamenti>`__, University of Minnesota

  + `TnSeq analysis of bacterial genomes <http://jbadomics.github.io/tnseq/>`__

Evening:

- Attendee research presentations
  
*Wednesday:*

- `Byron Smith <http://blog.byronjsmith.com/>`__, University of Michigan

  + `Reproducible research with GNU make (for building pipelines) <http://bsmith89.github.io/make-bml/>`__

- Luiz Irber, UC Davis.

  + Intermediate version control with git (tag, rebasing, bisect) (`Part one <https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/>`__, `Part two <https://rgaiacs.github.io/swc-git-intermediate/>`__)

- `April Wright <http://wrightaprilm.github.io/pages/about_me.html>`__, Iowa State

  + `Building phylogenetic trees from RADseq <https://github.com/wrightaprilm/BodegaBayWorkshop>`__

  
*Thursday:*

- `Kevin Murray <http://www.kdmurray.id.au/>`__, Australian National University

  + `Genotyping by Sequencing (GBS) bioinformatics pipeline <http://bodega-gbs.readthedocs.org/en/latest/gbs-main.html>`__

- `Jane Charlesworth <http://software.ac.uk/fellows/jane-charlesworth>`__, University of Oxford

  + GWAS bacterial pipeline, focusing on SNPs, gene presence or absence, and k-mer variation
  
Evening activity:

- Docker & drinks in the lounge (starting at 8 pm)

*Friday:*

- `Adina Howe <http://www.abe.iastate.edu/adina-howe/>`__, Iowa State

  + `Custom databases for better search and annotation <http://blast-tutorial.readthedocs.org/en/latest/ncbi/index.html>`__

Additional Materials
=====================

Books
-----

* `Practical Computing for Biologists <http://practicalcomputing.org/>`__

  This is a highly recommended book for people looking for a systematic
  presentation on shell scripting, programming, UNIX, etc.

RNAseq
------

* `Differential gene and transcript expression analysis of RNA-seq
  experiments with TopHat and Cufflinks
  <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22383036>`__, Trapnell et al.,
  Nat. Protocols.

  One paper that outlines a pipeline with the tophat, cufflinks, cuffdiffs and
  some associated R scripts.

* `Statistical design and analysis of RNA sequencing
  data. <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20439781>`__, Auer and
  Doerge, Genetics, 2010.

* `A comprehensive comparison of RNA-Seq-based transcriptome analysis from reads to differential gene expression and cross-comparison with microarrays: a case study in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=22965124>`__ Nookaew et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 2012.

* `Challenges and strategies in transcriptome assembly and differential gene expression quantification. A comprehensive in silico assessment of RNA-seq experiments <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=22998089>`__ Vijay et al., 2012.

* `Computational methods for transcriptome annotation and quantification using RNA-seq <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21623353>`__, Garber et al., Nat. Methods, 2011.

* `Evaluation of statistical methods for normalization and differential expression in mRNA-Seq experiments. <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=20167110>`__, Bullard et al., 2010.

* `A comparison of methods for differential expression analysis of RNA-seq data <http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2105/14/91>`__, Soneson and Delorenzi, BMC Bioinformatics, 2013.

* `Measurement of mRNA abundance using RNA-seq data: RPKM measure is inconsistent among samples. <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=22872506>`__, Wagner et al., Theory Biosci, 2012.  Also see `this blog post <http://blog.nextgenetics.net/?e=51>`__ explaining the paper in detail.

Computing and Data
------------------

* `A Quick Guide to Organizing Computational Biology Projects <http://www.ploscompbiol.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pcbi.1000424>`__, Noble, PLoS Comp Biology, 2009.

* `Willingness to Share Research Data Is Related to the Strength of the Evidence and the Quality of Reporting of Statistical Results <http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2012/05/the-most-important-scientific-result-published-in-the-last-year.html>`__, Wicherts et al., PLoS One, 2011.

* `Got replicability? <http://econjwatch.org/articles/got-replicability-the-journal-of-money-credit-and-banking-archive>`__, McCullough, Economics in Practice, 2007.

Also see this great pair of blog posts on `organizing projects <http://nicercode.github.io/blog/2013-04-05-projects/>`__ and `research workflow <http://carlboettiger.info/2012/05/06/research-workflow.html>`__.

.. Links
.. =====

Humor
-----

* `Data Sharing and Management Snafu in 3 Short Acts <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N2zK3sAtr-4&feature=youtu.be>`__

Resources
---------

* `Biostar <http://biostars.org>`__

  A high quality question & answer Web site.

* `SEQanswers <http://seqanswers.com/>`__

  A discussion and information site for next-generation sequencing.

* `Software Carpentry lessons <http://software-carpentry.org/4_0/index.html>`__

  A large number of open and reusable tutorials on the shell, programming,
  version control, etc.

Blogs
-----

* http://www.genomesunzipped.org/

  Genomes Unzipped.

* http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/

  Titus's blog.

* http://bcbio.wordpress.com/

  Blue Collar Bioinformatics

* http://massgenomics.org/

  Mass Genomics

* http://blog.nextgenetics.net/

  Next Genetics

* http://gettinggeneticsdone.blogspot.com/

  Getting Genetics Done

* http://omicsomics.blogspot.com/

  Omics! Omics!

* http://lab.loman.net/

  Nick Loman's lab notebook
