Pydoit for Workflow Automation
==============================

Who: Raniere Silva, lead instructor.

When: January 27, 2016

Times: 9:15am-12:15pm PST

Where: TBD (Valley Hall, UC Davis Campus)  

Contact: Please contact `Jessica Mizzi <mailto:jessica.mizzi@gmail.com>`__ with any questions.


`> Register Here < <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/advanced-git-half-day-workshop-tickets-20040034282>`__
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. `> Materials Link Here < <http://emilydolson.github.io/D3-visualising-data/>`__
.. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Description
-----------

Git is a version control software, it is very helpful for managing changing projects and is 
very useful when working collaboratively.

Computer and workshop requirements
----------------------------------

Attendees will need to bring a computer with an Internet connection.

Please install git before the workshop by following the
instructions below.

Installation instructions
-------------------------

Windows:

1. Download the Git for Windows installer `here <https://git-for-windows.github.io/>`__.
2. Follow install instructions.

   * Click "next"
   * Click "next"
   * Click "next"
   * Click "next"
   * Click "next"
   * Select **"Use Git from the Windows Command Prompt"** and click on "next".  If you forget to do this, re-run the installer and select the correct option.
   * Click "next", keep **"Checkout Windows-style, commit Unix-style line endings"** selected.
   * Select **"Use Windows' default console window"** and click on "next"
   * Click on "next"
   * Click on "finish"

OS X:

For versions **10.9 and higher**:

Download and run the most recent "mavericks" installer from `this list 
<http://sourceforge.net/projects/git-osx-installer/files/>`__.

For versions **10.5-10.8**:

Download and run the most recent "snow-leopards" installer from
`this list <http://sourceforge.net/projects/git-osx-installer/files/>`__.
