Intermediate/Advanced Bioinformatics Training 
================================

.. @add mailing list info

Who: `Titus Brown <mailto:ctbrown@ucdavis.edu>`__ (lead instructor);
and many others (see below).

When: February 6 through 12, 2016

Where: `Bodega Marine Lab <http://bml.ucdavis.edu/>`__ at Bodega Bay

Cost: TBD, but reasonable


.. `> Register here < <insert reg link here>`__
.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. `> Materials link < <insert materials link>`__
.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Description
-----------

We will be running a week-long set of Carpentry-style tutorials on intermediate
to advanced genomics techniques from Feb 6-12, 2016, at the Bodega Marine Lab.  
We've done this `before <http://angus.readthedocs.org/en/2015/week3.html>`__ 
and it went pretty `well <http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/2015-small-batch.html>`__.

Instructors and Topics overview
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Jon Badalamenti <http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Jonathan_Badalamenti>`__, University of Minnesota

* Using BioPython to prepare genomes for GeneBank Submissions
* Running Prokka annotation, converting .gbk to .tkl NCBI format

`Jason Williams <https://www.dnalc.org/about/staff/williams.html>`__, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory

* Exploring nanopore sequencing in the classroom
* Developing bioinformatics course based research experiences

`Jane Charlesworth <http://software.ac.uk/fellows/jane-charlesworth>`__, 
University of Oxford

* GWAS bacterial pipeline, focusing on SNPs, gene presence or absense, and khmer variation

`Chris Holdgraf <http://chrisholdgraf.com/>`__, UC Berkeley

* Statistical analysis in neuroscience in Python
* Ranges from basics (t-tests) to intermediate (permutations tests) to advanced (machine learning)

`Byron Smith <http://blog.byronjsmith.com/>`__, University of Michigan

* Reproducible research tools, including GNU Make for reproducible analysis pipeline

`Will Trimble <http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Will_Trimble>`__, 
Argonne National Lab

* Getting genomes, abstracts, and annotations out of NCBI's API and MG-RAST's API
* Understanding kmers and using kmer counts for sequencing quality control

`April Wright <http://wrightaprilm.github.io/pages/about_me.html>`__, Iowa State

* Phylogenomics from RADSeq data at a population level using the `Stacks pipeline <http://catchenlab.life.illinois.edu/stacks/>`__.
* "Best practice" for NGS phylogenomics data, including testing for bias and comparing phylogenetic parameter estimates 

`Adina Howe <http://www.abe.iastate.edu/adina-howe/>`__, Iowa State

* Identifying microbial drivers of global change
* Unification of heterogeneous datasets

.. NOTE: Adina didn't provide a description yet, so I pulled these from her lab webpage
.. as space fillers, will be replaced

`Kevin Murray <http://www.kdmurray.id.au/>`__, Austrailian National University

* Genotyping by Sequencing (GBS) bioinformatics `pipeline <http://www.maizegenetics.net/#!genotyping-by-sequencing-gbs/c9c6>`__

`Raniere Silva <http://rgaiacs.com/>`__ 
.. I think he has no academic affiliation atm bc he just graduated

* More advanced Git actions, inlcuding tag and rereleases on GitHub, rebasing, and bisect.

`Amanda Charbonneau <http://figshare.com/authors/Amanda_Charbonneau/446056>`__, Michigan State University

* interested in teaching something, hasn't yet provided topics

Will Pitchers, Michigan State University

* interested in teaching something if not deported first

Jinlyung Choi, Iowa State University

* RefSoil and building, (but maybe not since this is not only for metagenomics folk)

Additional Materials
=====================

Books
-----

* `Practical Computing for Biologists <http://practicalcomputing.org/>`__

  This is a highly recommended book for people looking for a systematic
  presentation on shell scripting, programming, UNIX, etc.

RNAseq
------

* `Differential gene and transcript expression analysis of RNA-seq
  experiments with TopHat and Cufflinks
  <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22383036>`__, Trapnell et al.,
  Nat. Protocols.

  One paper that outlines a pipeline with the tophat, cufflinks, cuffdiffs and
  some associated R scripts.

* `Statistical design and analysis of RNA sequencing
  data. <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20439781>`__, Auer and
  Doerge, Genetics, 2010.

* `A comprehensive comparison of RNA-Seq-based transcriptome analysis from reads to differential gene expression and cross-comparison with microarrays: a case study in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=22965124>`__ Nookaew et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 2012.

* `Challenges and strategies in transcriptome assembly and differential gene expression quantification. A comprehensive in silico assessment of RNA-seq experiments <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=22998089>`__ Vijay et al., 2012.

* `Computational methods for transcriptome annotation and quantification using RNA-seq <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21623353>`__, Garber et al., Nat. Methods, 2011.

* `Evaluation of statistical methods for normalization and differential expression in mRNA-Seq experiments. <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=20167110>`__, Bullard et al., 2010.

* `A comparison of methods for differential expression analysis of RNA-seq data <http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2105/14/91>`__, Soneson and Delorenzi, BMC Bioinformatics, 2013.

* `Measurement of mRNA abundance using RNA-seq data: RPKM measure is inconsistent among samples. <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=22872506>`__, Wagner et al., Theory Biosci, 2012.  Also see `this blog post <http://blog.nextgenetics.net/?e=51>`__ explaining the paper in detail.

Computing and Data
------------------

* `A Quick Guide to Organizing Computational Biology Projects <http://www.ploscompbiol.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pcbi.1000424>`__, Noble, PLoS Comp Biology, 2009.

* `Willingness to Share Research Data Is Related to the Strength of the Evidence and the Quality of Reporting of Statistical Results <http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2012/05/the-most-important-scientific-result-published-in-the-last-year.html>`__, Wicherts et al., PLoS One, 2011.

* `Got replicability? <http://econjwatch.org/articles/got-replicability-the-journal-of-money-credit-and-banking-archive>`__, McCullough, Economics in Practice, 2007.

Also see this great pair of blog posts on `organizing projects <http://nicercode.github.io/blog/2013-04-05-projects/>`__ and `research workflow <http://carlboettiger.info/2012/05/06/research-workflow.html>`__.

.. Links
.. =====

Humor
-----

* `Data Sharing and Management Snafu in 3 Short Acts <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N2zK3sAtr-4&feature=youtu.be>`__

Resources
---------

* `Biostar <http://biostars.org>`__

  A high quality question & answer Web site.

* `SEQanswers <http://seqanswers.com/>`__

  A discussion and information site for next-generation sequencing.

* `Software Carpentry lessons <http://software-carpentry.org/4_0/index.html>`__

  A large number of open and reusable tutorials on the shell, programming,
  version control, etc.

Blogs
-----

* http://www.genomesunzipped.org/

  Genomes Unzipped.

* http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/

  Titus's blog.

* http://bcbio.wordpress.com/

  Blue Collar Bioinformatics

* http://massgenomics.org/

  Mass Genomics

* http://blog.nextgenetics.net/

  Next Genetics

* http://gettinggeneticsdone.blogspot.com/

  Getting Genetics Done

* http://omicsomics.blogspot.com/

  Omics! Omics!

* http://lab.loman.net/

  Nick Loman's lab notebook
